<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>IX. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks In Paris</h3>
			<p>As the grey morning mist gradually dispersed, and daylight began to penetrate the cloud that dimmed the four squares of glass composing the windows of the diligence, the Yorkshireman, half-asleep and half-awake, took a mental survey of his fellow-travellers.⁠—Before him sat his worthy friend, snoring away with his mouth open, and his head, which kept bobbing over on to the shoulder of the Countess, enveloped in the ample folds of a white cotton nightcap.⁠—She, too, was asleep and, disarmed of all her daylight arts, dozed away in tranquil security. Her mouth also was open, exhibiting rather a moderate set of teeth, and her Madonna front having got a-twist, exposed a mixture of brown and iron-grey hairs at the parting place. Her bonnet swung from the roof of the diligence, and its place was supplied by a handsome lace cap, fastened under her chin by a broad-hemmed cambric handkerchief. Presently the sun rose, and a bright ray shooting into the Countess’s corner, awoke her with a start, and after a hurried glance at the passengers, who appeared to be all asleep, she drew a small ivory-cased looking-glass from her bag, and proceeded to examine her features. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks awoke shortly after, and with an awful groan exclaimed that his backbone was fairly worn out with sitting. “Oh dear!” said he, “my behind aches as if I had been kicked all the way from Hockleyhole to Marylebone. Are we near Paris? for I’m sure I can’t find seat any longer, indeed I can’t. I’d rather ride two hundred miles in nine hours, like H’osbaldeston, than be shut up in this woiture another hour. It really is past bearing, and that’s the long and short of the matter.” This exclamation roused all the party, who began yawning and rubbing their eyes and looking at their watches. The windows also were lowered to take in fresh air, and on looking out they found themselves rolling along a sandy road, lined on each side with apple-trees, whose branches were “groaning” with fruit. They breakfasted at Beaumont, and had a regular spread of fish, beef-steak, mutton-chops, a large joint of hot roast veal, roast chickens, several yards of sour bread, grapes, peaches, pears, and plums, with vin ordinaire, and coffee au lait; but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks was off his feed, and stood all the time to ease his haunches.</p>
			<p>Towards three in the afternoon they caught the first glimpse of the gilded dome of the Hospital of Invalids, which was a signal for all the party to brush up and make themselves agreeable. Even the three-hundred-thousand miler opened out, and began telling some wonderful anecdotes, while the Countess and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks carried on a fierce flirtation, or whatever else they pleased to call it. At last, after a deal of jargon, he broke off by appealing to the Yorkshireman to know what “inn” they should “put up at” in Paris. “I don’t know, I’m sure,” said he; “it depends a good deal upon how you mean to live. As you pay my shot it does not do for beggars to be choosers; but suppose we try Meurice’s” “Oh no,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, “her ladyship tells me it is werry expensive, for the English always pay through the nose if they go to English houses in Paris; and, as we talk French, we can put up at a French one, you know.” “Well, then, we can try one of the French ones in the Rue de la Paix.” “Rue de la Pay! no, by Jove, that won’t do for me⁠—the werry name is enough⁠—no Rue de la Pay for me, at least if I have to pay the shot.” “Well, then, you must get your friend there to tell you of some place, for I don’t care twopence, as long as I have a bed, where it is.” The Countess and he then laid their heads together again, and when the diligence stopped to change horses at <abbr>St.</abbr> Denis, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks asked the Yorkshireman to alight, and taking him aside, announced with great glee that her ladyship, finding they were strangers in the land, had most kindly invited them to stay with her, and that she had a most splendid house in the Rue des Mauvais-Garçons, ornamented with mirrors, musical clocks, and he didn’t know what, and kept the best company in all France, marquesses, barons, viscounts, authors, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> Before the Yorkshireman had time to reply, the conducteur came and hurried them back into the diligence, and closed the door with a bang, to be sure of having his passengers there while he and the postilion shuffled the cards and cut for a glass of <i>eau-de-vie</i> apiece.</p>
			<p>The Countess, suspecting what they had been after, resumed the conversation as soon as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks was seated.⁠—“You shall manger cinque fois every day,” said she; “cinque fois,” she repeated.⁠—“Humph!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks to himself, “what can that mean?⁠—cank four⁠—four times five’s twenty⁠—eat twenty times a day⁠—not possible!” “Oui, Monsieur, cinque fois,” repeated the Countess, telling the number off on her fingers⁠—“Café at nine of the matin, déjeuner à la fourchette at onze o’clock, diner at cinque heure, café at six hour, and souper at neuf hour.” “Upon my word,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, his eyes sparkling with pleasure, “your offer is werry inwiting. My lady,” said he, bowing before her, “Je suis⁠—I am much flattered.” “And, Monsieur?” said she, looking at the Yorkshireman. He, too, assured her that he was very much flattered, and was beginning to excuse himself, when the Countess interrupted him somewhat abruptly by turning to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks and saying, “He sall be your son⁠—n’est ce pas?” “No, my lady, I’ve no children,” replied he, and the Countess’s eyes in their turn underwent a momentary illumination.</p>
			<p>The Parisian barrier was soon reached, and the man taken up to kick about the jaded travellers’ luggage at the journey’s end. While this operation was going on in the diligence yard, the Countess stuck close to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, and having dispatched Agamemnon for a fiacre, bundled him in, luggage and all, and desiring her worthy domestic to mount the box, and direct the driver, she kissed her hand to the Yorkshireman, assuring him she would be most happy to see him, in proof of which, she drove away without telling him her number, or where the Rue des Mauvais-Garçons was.</p>
			<p>Paris is a charming place after the heat of the summer has passed away, and the fine, clear, autumnal days arrive. Then is the time to see the Tuileries gardens to perfection, when the Parisians have returned from their châteaus, and emigrating English and those homeward bound halt to renovate on the road; then is the time that the gayest plants put forth their brightest hues, and drooping orange flowers scent the air which silvery fountains lend their aid to cool.</p>
			<p>On a Sunday afternoon, such as we have described, our friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs (who since his arrival had been living very comfortably at the Hôtel d’Hollande, in expectation of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks paying his bill) indulged in six sous’ worth of chairs⁠—one to sit upon and one for each leg⁠—and, John Bull-like, stretched himself out in the shade beneath the lofty trees, to view the gay groups who promenaded the alleys before him. First, there came a helmeted cuirassier, with his wife in blue satin, and a little boy in his hand in uniform, with a wooden sword, a perfect miniature of the father; then a group of short-petticoated, shuffling French women, each with an Italian greyhound in slips, followed by an awkward Englishman with a sister on each arm, all stepping out like grenadiers; then came a ribbon’d chevalier of the Legion of Honour, whose hat was oftener in his hand than on his head, followed by a nondescript looking militaire with fierce mustachios, in shining jack-boots, white leathers, and a sort of Italian military cloak, with one side thrown over the shoulder, to exhibit the wearer’s leg, and the bright scabbard of a large sword, while on the hero’s left arm hung a splendidly dressed woman. “What a figure!” said the Yorkshireman to himself, as they came before him, and he took another good stare.⁠—“Yet stay⁠—no, impossible!⁠—Gracious Heaven! it can’t be⁠—and yet it is⁠—by Jove, it’s Jorrocks!”</p>
			<p>“Why now, you old imbecile,” cried he, jumping off his chairs and running up to him, “What are you after?” bursting into a loud laugh as he looked at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks’s mustachios (a pair of great false ones). “Is there no piece of tomfoolery too great for you? What’s come across you now? Where the deuce did you get these things?” taking hold of the curls at one side of his mustachios.</p>
			<p>“How now?” roared <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks with rage and astonishment. “How now! ye young scaramouch, vot do you mean by insulting a gentleman sportsman in broad daylight, in the presence of a lady of quality? By Jingo,” added he, his eyes sparkling with rage, “if you are not off before I can say ‘dumpling’ I’ll run you through the gizzard and give your miserable carcass to the dogs,” suiting the action to the word, and groping under his cloak for the hilt of his sword.⁠—A crowd collected, and the Yorkshireman perceiving symptoms of a scene, slunk out of the mêlée, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, after an indignant shake or two of his feathers and curl of his mustachios, pursued his course up the gardens.</p>
			<p>This was the first time they had met since their arrival, which was above a week before; indeed, it was nine days, for the landlord of the house where the Yorkshireman lived had sent his “little bill” two days before this, it being an established rule of his house, and one which was conspicuously posted in all the rooms, that the bills were to be settled weekly; and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs had that very morning observed that the hat of Monsieur l’Hote was not raised half so high from his head, nor his body inclined so much towards the ground as it was wont to be⁠—a pretty significant hint that he wanted his cash.⁠—Now the Yorkshireman, among his other accomplishments, had a turn for play, and unfortunately had been at the Salon the night before, when, after continuous run of ill-luck, he came away twelve francs below the amount of the hotel-keeper’s bill, consequently a rumpus with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks could not have taken place at a more unfortunate moment. Thinking, however, a good night’s rest or two might settle him down, and put all matters right, he let things alone until the Tuesday following, when again finding Monsieur’s little “memoire” on one side of his coffeecup, and a framed copy of the “rules and regulations” of the house on the other, he felt constrained to take some decisive step towards its liquidation. Accordingly, having breakfasted, he combed his hair straight over his face, and putting on a very penitential look, called a cab, and desired the man to drive him to the Rue des Mauvais-Garçons.⁠—After zigzagging, twisting, and turning about in various directions, they at last jingled to the end of a very narrow dirty-looking street, whose unswept pavement had not been cheered by a ray of sunshine since the houses were built. It was excessively narrow, and there were no flags on either side; but through the centre ran a dribbling stream, here and there obstructed by oyster-shells, or vegetable refuse, as the water had served as a plaything for children, or been stopped by servants for domestic purposes. The street being extremely old, of course the houses were very large, forming, as all houses do in Paris, little squares entered by folding doors, at one side of which, in a sort of lodge, lives the Porter⁠—“Parlez au Portier”⁠—who receives letters, parcels, and communications for the several occupiers, consisting sometimes of twenty or thirty different establishments in one house. From this functionary may be learned the names of the different tenants. Having dismissed his cab, the Yorkshireman entered the first gateway on his left, to take the chance of gaining some intelligence of the Countess. The Porter⁠—a cobbler by trade⁠—was hammering away, last on knee, at the sole of a shoe, and with a grin on his countenance, informed the Yorkshireman that the Countess lived next door but one. A thrill of fear came over him on finding himself so near the residence of his indignant friend, but it was of momentary duration, and he soon entered the courtyard of <abbr>No.</abbr> 3⁠—where he was directed by an unshaved grisly-looking porter, to proceed “un troisième,” and ring the bell at the door on the right-hand side. Obedient to his directions, the Yorkshireman proceeded to climb a wide but dirty stone staircase, with carved and gilded balusters, whose wall and steps had known no water for many years, and at length found himself on the landing opposite the very apartment which contained the redoubtable Jorrocks. Here he stood for a few seconds, breathing and cooling himself after his exertions, during which time he pictured to himself the worthy citizen immersed in papers deeply engaged in the preparation of his France in three volumes, and wished that the first five minutes of their interview were over. At length he mustered courage to grasp a greasy-looking red tassel, and give a gentle tinkle to the bell. The door was quickly opened by Agamemnon in dirty loose trousers and slippers, and without a coat. He recognised his fellow-traveller, and in answer to his inquiry if Monsieur Jorrocks was at home, grinned, and answered, “Oh oui, certainement, Monsieur le Colonel Jorrockes est ici,” and motioned him to come in. The Yorkshireman entered the little ante-room⁠—a sort of scullery, full of mops, pans, dirty shoes, dusters, candlesticks⁠—and the first thing that caught his eye was Jorrocks’s sword, which Agamemnon had been burnishing up with sandpaper and leather, lying on a table before the window. This was not very encouraging, but Agamemnon gave no time for reflection, and opening half a light salmon-coloured folding door directly opposite the one by which he entered, the Yorkshireman passed through, unannounced and unperceived by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks or the Countess, who were completely absorbed in a game of dominoes, sitting on opposite sides of a common deal table, whose rose-coloured silk cover was laid over the back of a chair. Jorrocks was sitting on a stool with his back to the door, and the Countess being very intent on the game, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs had time for a hasty survey of the company and apartment before she looked up. It was about one o’clock, and of course she was still <i>en déshabillé</i>, with her nightcap on, a loose <i>robe de chambre</i> of flannel, and a flaming broad-striped red-and-black Scotch shawl thrown over her shoulders, and swan’s-down-lined slippers on her feet. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks had his leather pantaloons on, with a rich blue and yellow brocade dressing-gown, and blue morocco slippers to match. His jack-boots, to which he had added a pair of regimental heel-spurs, were airing before a stove, which contained the dying embers of a small log. The room was low, and contained the usual allowance of red figured velvet-cushioned chairs, with brass nails; the window curtains were red-and-white on rings and gilded rods; a secretaire stood against one of the walls, and there was a large mirror above the marble mantelpiece, which supported a clock surmounted by a flying Cupid, and two vases of artificial flowers covered with glass, on one of which was placed an elegant bonnet of the newest and most approved fashion. The floor, of highly polished oak, was strewed about with playbills, slippers, curl-papers, boxes, cards, dice, ribbons, dirty handkerchiefs, <abbr>etc.</abbr>; and on one side of the deal table was a plate containing five well-picked mutton-chop bones, and hard by lay <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks’s mustachios and a dirty small tooth-comb.</p>
			<p>Just as the Yorkshireman had got thus far in his survey, the Countess gave the finishing stroke to the game, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, jumping up in a rage, gave his leathers such a slap as sent a cloud of pipe-clay flying into his face. “Vous avez the devil’s own luck”; exclaimed he, repeating the blow, when, to avoid the cloud, he turned short round, and encountered the Yorkshireman.</p>
			<p>“How now?” roared he at the top of his voice, “who sent for you? Have you come here to insult me in my own house? I’ll lay my soul to an ’oss-shoe, I’ll be too many for ye! Where’s my sword?”</p>
			<p>“Now, my good <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks,” replied the Yorkshireman very mildly, “pray, don’t put yourself into a passion⁠—consider the lady, and don’t let us have any unpleasantness in Madame la Duchesse Benvolio’s house,” making her a very low bow as he spoke, and laying his hand on his heart.</p>
			<p>“D⁠—n your displeasancies!” roared Jorrocks, “and that’s swearing⁠—a thing I’ve never done since my brother Joe fobbed me of my bottom piece of muffin. Out with you, I say! Out with ye! you’re a nasty dirty blackguard; I’m done with you for ever. I detest the sight of you and hate ye afresh every time I see you!”</p>
			<p>“Doucement, mon cher Colonel,” interposed the Countess, “ve sall play anoder game, and you sall had von better chance,” clapping him on the back as she spoke. “I von’t!” bellowed Jorrocks. “Turn this chap out first. I’ll do it myself. H’Agamemnon! H’Agamemnon! happortez my sword! bring my sword! tout suite, directly!”</p>
			<p>“Police! Police! Police!” screamed the Countess out of the window; “Police! Police! Police!” bellowed Agamemnon from the next one; “Police! Police! Police!” re-echoed the grisly porter down below; and before they had time to reflect on what had passed, a sergeant’s file of the National Guard had entered the hotel, mounted the stairs, and taken possession of the apartment. The sight of the soldiers with their bright bayonets, all fixed and gleaming as they were, cooled <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks’s courage in an instant, and, after standing a few seconds in petrified astonishment, he made a dart at his jack-boots and bolted out of the room. The Countess Benvolio then unlocked her secretaire, in which was a plated liqueur-stand with bottles and glasses, out of which she poured the sergeant three, and the privates two glasses each of pure <i>eau-de-vie,</i> after which Agamemnon showed them the top of the stairs.</p>
			<p>In less than ten minutes all was quiet again, and the Yorkshireman was occupying <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks’s stool. The Countess then began putting things a little in order, adorned the deal table with the rose-coloured cover⁠—before doing which she swept off <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks’s mustachios, and thrust a dirty white handkerchief and the small tooth-comb under the cushion of a chair⁠—while Agamemnon carried away the plate with the bones. “Ah, le pauvre Colonel,” said the Countess, eyeing the bones as they passed, “he sall be von grand homme to eat⁠—him eat toujours⁠—all day long⁠—Oh, him mange beaucoup⁠—beaucoup⁠—beaucoup. He is von varé amiable man, bot he sall not be moch patience. I guess he sall be varé rich⁠—n’est ce pas? have many guinea?⁠—He say he keep beaucoup des chiens⁠—many dogs for the hont⁠—he sail be vot dey call rom customer (rum customer) in Angleterre, I think.”</p>
			<p>Thus she went rattling on, telling the Yorkshireman all sorts of stories about the <i>pauvre</i> Colonel, whom she seemed ready to change for a younger piece of goods with a more moderate appetite; and finding <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs more complaisant than he had been in the diligence, she concluded by proposing that he should accompany the Colonel and herself to a <i>soirée-dansante</i> that evening at a friend of hers, another Countess, in the “Rue des Bons-Enfants.”</p>
			<p>Being disengaged as usual, he at once assented, on condition that the Countess would effect a reconciliation between <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks and himself, for which purpose she at once repaired to his room, and presently reappeared arm-in-arm with our late outrageously indignant hero. The Colonel had been occupying his time at the toilette, and was <i>en grand costume</i>⁠—finely cleaned leathers, jack-boots and brass spurs, with a spick and span new blue military frock-coat, hooking and eyeing up to the chin, and all covered with braid, frogs, tags, and buttons.</p>
			<p>“Dere be von beau garçon!” exclaimed the Countess, turning him round after having led him into the middle of the room⁠—“dat habit does fit you like vax.” “Yes,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, raising his arms as though he were going to take flight, “but it is rather tight⁠—partiklarly round the waist⁠—shouldn’t like to dine in it. What do you think of it?” turning round and addressing the Yorkshireman as if nothing had happened⁠—“suppose you get one like it?” “Do,” rejoined the Countess, “and some of the other things⁠—vot you call them, Colonel?” “What⁠—breeches?” “Yes, breeches⁠—but the oder name⁠—vot you call dem?” “Oh, leathers?” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks. “No, no, another name still.” “I know no other. Pantaloons, perhaps, you mean?” “No, no, not pantaloons.” “Not pantaloons?⁠—then I know of nothing else. You don’t mean these sacks of things, called trousers?” taking hold of the Yorkshireman’s. “No, no, not trousers.” “Then really, my lady, I don’t know any other name.” “Oh, yes, Colonel, you know the things I intend. Vot is it you call Davil in Angleterre?” “Oh, we have lots of names for him⁠—Old Nick, for instance.”⁠—“Old Nick breeches,” said the Countess thoughtfully; “no, dat sall not be it⁠—vot else?” “Old Harry?” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks.⁠—“Old Harry breeches,” repeated the Countess in the hopes of catching the name by the ear⁠—“no, nor dat either, encore anoder name, Colonel.” “Old Scratch, then?” “Old Scratch breeches,” re-echoed the Countess⁠—“no, dat shall not do.”⁠—“Beelzebub?” rejoined <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks. “Beelzebub breeches,” repeated the Countess⁠—“nor dat.” “Satan, then?” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks. “Oh oui!” responded the Countess with delight, “satan! black satan breeches⁠—you shall von pair of black satan breeches, like the Colonel.”</p>
			<p>“And the Colonel will pay for them, I presume?” said the Yorkshireman, looking at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks.</p>
			<p>“I carn’t,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks in an undertone; “I’m nearly cleaned out, and shall be in Short’s Gardens before I know where I am, unless I hold better cards this evening than I’ve done yet. Somehow or other, these French are rather too sharp for me, and I’ve been down upon my luck ever since I came.⁠—Lose every night, in fact, and then they are so werry anxious for me to have my rewenge, as they call it, that they make parties expressly for me every evening; but, instead of getting my rewenge, I only lose more and more money.⁠—They seem to me always to turn up the king whenever they want him.⁠—To-night we are going to a Countess’s of werry great consequence, and, as you know écarté well, I’ll back your play, and, perhaps, we may do something between us.”</p>
			<p>This being all arranged, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs took his departure, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks having girded on his sword, and the Countess having made her morning toilette, they proceed to their daily promenade in the Tuileries Gardens.</p>
			<p>A little before nine that evening, the Yorkshireman again found himself toiling up the dirty staircase, and on reaching the third landing was received by Agamemnon in a roomy uniform of a chasseur⁠—dark green and tarnished gold, with a cocked-hat and black feather, and a couteau de chasse, slung by a shining patent-leather belt over his shoulder. The opening of the inner door displayed the worthy Colonel sitting at his ease, with his toes on each side of the stove (for the evenings had begun to get cool), munching the last bit of crust of the fifth Périgord pie that the Countess had got him to buy.⁠—He was extremely smart; thin black gauze-silk stockings, black satin breeches; well-washed, well-starched white waistcoat with a rolling collar, showing an amplitude of frill, a blue coat with yellow buttons and a velvet collar, while his pumps shone as bright as polished steel.</p>
			<p>The Countess presently sidled into the room, all smirks and smiles as dressy ladies generally are when well “got up.” Rouge and the milliner had effectually reduced her age from five and forty down to five and twenty. She wore a dress of the palest pink satin, with lilies of the valley in her hair, and an exquisitely wrought gold armlet, with a most Lilliputian watch in the centre.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks having finished his pie-crust, and stuck on his mustachios, the Countess blew out her bougies, and the trio, preceeded by Agamemnon with a lanthorn in his hand, descended the stairs, whose greasy, muddy steps contrasted strangely with the rich delicacy of the Countess’s beautifully slippered feet. Having handed them into the voiture, Agamemnon mounted up behind, and in less than ten minutes they rumbled into the spacious courtyard of the Countess de Jackson, in the Rue des Bons-Enfants, and drew up beneath a lofty arch at the foot of a long flight of dirty black-and-white marble stairs, about the centre of which was stationed a <i>lacquey de place</i> to show the company up to the hall. The Countess de Jackson (the wife of an English horse-dealer) lived in an <i>entresol au troisième</i>, but the hotel being of considerable dimensions, her apartment was much more spacious than the Countess Benvolio’s. Indeed, the Countess de Jackson, being a <i>marchande des modes</i>, had occasion for greater accommodation, and she had five low rooms, whereof the centre one was circular, from which four others, consisting of an ante-room, a kitchen, a bedroom, and <i>salle à manger</i>, radiated.</p>
			<p>Agamemnon having opened the door of the <i>fiacre</i>, the Countess Benvolio took the Yorkshireman’s arm, and at once preceded to make the ascent, leaving the Colonel to settle the fare, observing as they mounted the stairs, that he was “von exceeding excellent man, but varé slow.”</p>
			<p>“Madame la Contesse Benvolio and Monsieur Stoops!” cried the <i>lacquey de place</i> as they reached the door of the low ante-room, where the Countess Benvolio deposited her shawl, and took a final look at herself in the glass. She again took the Yorkshireman’s arm and entered the round ballroom, which, though low and out of all proportion, had an exceedingly gay appearance, from the judicious arrangement of the numerous lights, reflected in costly mirrors, and the simple elegance of the crimson drapery, festooned with flowers and evergreens against the gilded walls. Indeed, the hotel had been the residence of an ambassador before the first revolution, and this <i>entresol</i> had formed the private apartment of his Excellency. The door immediately opposite the one by which they entered, led into the Countess de Jackson’s bedroom, which was also lighted up, with the best furniture exposed and her toilette-table set out with numberless scent bottles, vases, trinkets, and nick-nacks, while the <i>salle à manger</i> was converted into a card-room. Having been presented in due form to the hostess, the Yorkshireman and his new friend stood surveying the gay crowd of beautiful and well-dressed women, large frilled and well-whiskered men, all chatting, and bowing, and dancing, when a half-suppressed titter that ran through the room attracted their attention, and turning round, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks was seen poking his way through the crowd with a number of straws sticking to his feet, giving him the appearance of a feathered Mercury. The fact was, that Agamemnon had cleaned his shoes with the liquid varnish (french polish), and forgetting to dry it properly, the carrying away half the straw from the bottom of the <i>fiacre</i> was the consequence, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks having paid the Jehu rather short, the latter had not cared to tell him about it.</p>
			<p>The straws were, however, soon removed without interruption to the gaiety of the evening. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs, of course, took an early opportunity of waltzing with the Countess Benvolio, who, as all French women are, was an admirable dancer, and Jorrocks stood by fingering and curling his mustachios, admiring her movements but apparently rather jealous of the Yorkshireman. “I wish,” said he after the dance was over, “that you would sit down at <i>écarté</i> and let us try to win some of these mouncheers’ tin, for I’m nearly cleaned out. Let us go into the cardroom, but first let us see if we can find anything in the way of nourishment, for I begin to be hungry. Garsoon,” said he catching a servant with a trayful of <i>eau sucrée</i> glasses, “avez-vous kick-shaws to eat?” putting his finger in his mouth⁠—“ge wouderay some refreshment.” “Oh, oui,” replied the garçon taking him to an open window overlooking the courtyard, and extending his hand in the air, “voilà, monsieur, de très bon rafraîchissement.”</p>
			<p>The ball proceeded with the utmost decorum, for though composed of shopkeepers and such like, there was nothing in their dress or manner to indicate anything but the best possible breeding. Jorrocks, indeed, fancied himself in the very élite of French society, and, but for a little incident, would have remained of that opinion. In an unlucky moment he took it into his head he could waltz, and surprised the Countess Benvolio by claiming her hand for the next dance. “It seems werry easy,” said he to himself as he eyed the couples gliding round the room;⁠—“at all ewents there’s nothing like trying, ‘for he who never makes an effort never risks a failure.’ ” The couples were soon formed and ranged for a fresh dance. Jorrocks took a conspicuous position in the centre of the room, buttoned his coat, and, as the music struck up, put his arm round the waist of his partner. The Countess, it seems, had some misgivings as to his prowess in the dancing line, and used all her strength to get him well off, but the majority of the dancers started before him. At length, however, he began to move, and went rolling away in something between a gallop and a waltz, effecting two turns, like a great cart-wheel, which brought him bang across the room, right into the track of another couple, who were swinging down at full speed, making a cannon with his head against both theirs, and ending by all four coming down upon the hard boards with a tremendous crash⁠—the Countess Benvolio undermost, then the partner of the other Countess, then Jorrocks, and then the other Countess herself. Great was the commotion, and the music stopped; Jorrocks lost his wig, and split his Beelzebub breeches across the knees, while the other gentleman cracked his behind⁠—and the Countess Benvolio and the other Countess were considerably damaged; particularly the other Countess, who lost four false teeth and broke an ear-ring. This, however, was not the worst, for as soon as they were all scraped together and set right again, the other Countess’s partner attacked Jorrocks most furiously, calling him a <i>sacré-nom de-Dieu’d bête</i> of an Englishman, a mauvais sujet, a cochon, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, then spitting on the floor⁠—the greatest insult a Frenchman can offer⁠—he vapoured about being one of the “grand nation,” “that he was brave⁠—the world knew it,” and concluded by thrusting his card⁠—“Monsieur Charles Adolphe Eugene, Confiturier, <abbr>No.</abbr> 15 bis, Rue Poupée”⁠—into Jorrocks’s face. It was now Jorrocks’s turn to speak, so doubling his fists, and getting close to him, he held one to his nose, exclaiming, “D⁠—n ye, sir, je suis⁠—<strong>Jorrocks</strong>!⁠—Je suis an Englishman! je vous lick within an inch of your life!⁠—Je vous kick!⁠—je vous mill!⁠—je vous flabbergaster!” and concluded by giving him his card, “Monsieur le Colonel Jorrocks, No 3, Rue des Mauvais-Garçons.”</p>
			<p>A friend of the confectioner’s interposed and got him away, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs persuaded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks to return into the cardroom, where they were speedily waited upon by the friend of the former, who announced that the Colonel must make an apology or fight, for he said, although Jorrocks was a “Colonel Anglais,” still Monsieur Eugene was of the Legion of Honour, and, consequently, very brave and not to be insulted with impunity. All this the Yorkshireman interpreted to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, who was most anxious to fight, and wished it was light that they might go to work immediately. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs therefore told the confectioner’s friend (who was also his foreman), that the Colonel would fight him with pistols at six o’clock in the Bois de Boulogne, but no sooner was the word “pistols” mentioned than the friend exclaimed, with a grimace and shrug of his shoulders, “Oh horror, no! Monsieur Adolphe is brave, but he will not touch pistols⁠—they’re not weapons of his country.” Jorrocks then proposed to fight him with broad swords, but this the confectioner’s foreman declined on behalf of his principal, and at last the Colonel suggested that they could not do better than fight it out with fists. Now, the confectioner was ten years younger than Jorrocks, tall, long-armed, and not over-burthened with flesh, and had, moreover, taken lessons of Harry Harmer, when that worthy had his school in Paris, so he thought the offer was a good one, and immediately closed with it. Jorrocks, too, had been a patron of the prize-ring, having studied under Bill Richmond, the man of colour, and was reported to have exhibited in early life (incog.) with a pugilist of some pretensions at the Fives-court, so, all things considered, fists seemed a very proper mode of settling the matter, and that being agreed upon, each party quitted the Countess de Jackson’s⁠—the confectioner putting forth all manner of high-flown ejaculations and prayers for success, as he groped about the ante-room for his hat, and descended the stairs. “Oh! God of war!” said he, throwing up his hands, “who guided the victorious army of this grand nation in Egypt, when, from the pyramids, forty centuries beheld our actions⁠—oh, brilliant sun, who shone upon our armies at Jaffa, at Naples, Montebello, Marengo, Austerlitz, Jena, and Algiers, who blessed our endeavours, who knowest that we are brave⁠—brave as a hundred lions⁠—look down on Charles Adolphe Eugene, and enable him to massacre and immolate on the altar of his wrath, this sacré-nom de-Dieu’d beastly hog of an Englishman”⁠—and thereupon he spit upon the flags with all the venom of a viper.</p>
			<p>Jorrocks, too, indulged in a few figures of speech, as he poked his way home, though of a different description. “Now blister my kidneys,” said he, slapping his thigh, “but I’ll sarve him out! I’ll baste him as Randall did ugly Borrock. I’ll knock him about as Belcher did the Big Ilkey Pigg. I’ll damage his mug as Turner did Scroggins’s. I’ll fib him till he’s as black as Agamemnon⁠—for I do feel as though I could fight a few.”</p>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper"><!-- TODO: this should be some thematic break, e.g. those three asterisks. Will need to check how to typeset -->
				<br/>
			</div>
			<div class="pg_body_wrapper">
				<br/>
			</div>
			<p>The massive folding doors of the Porte-Cocher at the Hôtel d’Hollande had not received their morning opening, when a tremendous loud, long, protracted rat-tat-tat-tat-tan, sounded like thunder throughout the extensive square, and brought numerous nightcapped heads to the windows, to see whether the hotel was on fire, or another revolution had broken out. The <i>maître d’hotel</i> screamed, the porter ran, the <i>chef de cuisine</i> looked out of his pigeon-hole window, and the <i>garçons</i> and male <i>femmes des chambres</i> rushed into the yard, with fear and astonishment depicted on their countenances, when on peeping through the grating of the little door, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks was descried, knocker in hand, about to sound a second edition. Now, nothing is more offensive to the nerves of a Frenchman than a riotous knock, and the impertinence was not at all migitated by its proceeding from a stranger who appeared to have arrived through the undignified medium of a co-cou.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" epub:type="noteref">23</a> Having scanned his dimensions and satisfied himself that, notwithstanding all the noise, Jorrocks was mere mortal man, the porter unbolted the door, and commenced a loud and energetic tirade of abuse against “Monsieur Anglais,” for his audacious thumping, which he swore was enough to make every man of the National Guard rush “to arms.” In the midst of the torrent, very little of which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks understood, the Yorkshireman appeared, whom he hurried into the <i>co-cou</i>, bundled in after him, cried “ally!” to the driver, and off they jolted at a miserably slow trot. A little before seven they reached the village of Passy, where it was arranged they should meet and proceed from thence to the Bois de Boulogne, to select a convenient place for the fight; but neither the confectioner nor his second, nor any one on his behalf, was visible and they walked the length and breadth of the village, making every possible inquiry without seeing or hearing anything of them. At length, having waited a couple of hours, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks’s appetite overpowered his desire of revenge, and caused him to retire to the “Chapeau-Rouge” to indulge in a “fork breakfast.” Nature being satisfied, he called for pen and ink, and with the aid of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs drew up the following proclamation which to this day remains posted in the <i>salle à manger</i> a copy whereof was transmitted by post to the confectioner at Paris.</p>
			<blockquote>
				<div>
					<p><strong>PROCLAMATION</strong>!</p>
					<!-- TODO: possibly semanticated might require to remove <strong>-->
					<p>I, John Jorrocks, of Great Coram Street, in the County of Middlesex, Member of the Surrey Hunt, in England, and Colonel of the Army when I’m in France, having been grossly insulted by Charles Adolphe Eugene of <abbr>No.</abbr> 15 bis, Rue Poupée, confectioner, this day repaired to Passy, with the intention of sarving him out with my fists; but, neither he nor any one for him having come to the scratch, I, John Jorrocks, do hereby proclaim the said Charles Adolphe Eugene to be a shabby fellow and no soldier, and totally unworthy the notice of a fox-hunter and a gentleman sportsman.</p>
					<p>(Signed) JOHN JORROCKS.</p>
					<!-- TODO: semanticate and see... -->
					<p>(Countersigned) STUBBS.</p>
				</div>
			</blockquote>
			<p>This being completed, and the bill paid, they returned leisurely on foot to Paris, looking first at one object, then at another, so that the Countess Benvolio’s dinner-hour was passed ere they reached the Tuileries Gardens, where after resting themselves until it began to get dusk, and their appetites returned, they repaired to the Café de Paris to destroy them again.⁠—The lofty well-gilded salon was just lighted up, and the numberless lamps reflected in costly mirrors in almost every partition of the wall, aided by the graceful figures and elegant dresses of the ladies, interspersed among the sombre-coated gentry, with here and there the gay uniforms of the military, imparted a fairy air to the scene, which was not a little heightened by the contrast produced by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks’s substantial figure, stumping through the centre with his hat on his head, his hands behind his back, and the dust of the day hanging about his Hessians.</p>
			<p>“Garsoon,” said he, hanging up his hat, and taking his place at a vacant table laid for two, “ge wouderai some wittles,” and, accordingly, the spruce-jacketed, white-aproned <i>garçon</i> brought him the usual red-backed book with gilt edges, cut and lettered at the side, like the index to a ledger, and, as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks said, “containing reading enough for a month.” “Quelle potage voulez vous, monsieur?” inquired the <i>garçon</i> at last, tired of waiting while he studied the <i>carte</i> and looked the words out in the dictionary. “<i>Avez-vous</i> any potted lobster?” “Non,” said the <i>garçon</i>, “potage au vermicelle, au riz, a la Julienne, consommé, et potage aux choux.” “Old shoe! who the devil do you think eats old shoes here? Have you any mock turtle or gravy soup?” “Non, monsieur,” said the <i>garçon</i> with a shrug of the shoulders. “Then avez-vous any roast beef?” “Non, monsieur; nous avons boeuf au naturel⁠—boeuf à la sauce piquante⁠—boeuf aux cornichons⁠—boeuf à la mode⁠—boeuf aux choux⁠—boeuf à la sauce tomate⁠—bifteck aux pommes de terre.” “Hold hard,” said Jorrocks; “I’ve often heard that you can dress an egg a thousand ways, and I want to hear no more about it; bring me a beef-steak and pommes de terre for three.” “Stop!” cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stubbs, with dismay⁠—“I see you don’t understand ordering a dinner in France⁠—let me teach you. Where’s the <i>carte?</i>” “Here,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, “is ‘the bill of lading,’ ” handing over the book.⁠—“Garçon, apportez une douzaine des huîtres, un citron, et du beurre frais,” said the Yorkshireman, and while they were discussing the propriety of eating them before or after the soup, a beautiful dish of little green oysters made their appearance, which were encored before the first supply was finished. “Now, Colonel,” said the Yorkshireman, “take a bumper of Chablis,” lifting a pint bottle out of the cooler. “It has had one plunge in the ice-pail and no more⁠—see what a delicate rind it leaves on the glass!” eyeing it as he spoke. “Ay, but I’d rayther it should leave something in the mouth than on the side of the glass,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks; “I loves a good strong generous wine⁠—military port, in fact⁠—but here comes fish and soup⁠—wot are they?” “Filet de sole au gratin, et potage au macaroni avec fromage de Parmesan. I’ll take fish first, because the soup will keep hot longest.” “So will I,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, “for I think you understand the thing⁠—but they seem to give werry small penn’orths⁠—it really looks like trifling with one’s appetite⁠—I likes the old joint⁠—the cut-and-come-again system, such as we used to have at Sugden’s in Cornhill⁠—joint, wegitables, and cheese all for two shillings.” “Don’t talk of your joints here,” rejoined the Yorkshireman⁠—“I told you before, you don’t understand the art of eating⁠—the dexterity of the thing consists in titivating the appetite with delicate morsels so as to prolong the pleasure. A well-regulated French dinner lasts two hours, whereas you go off at score, and take the shine out of yourself before you turn the Tattenham Corner of your appetite. But come, take another glass of Chablis, for your voice is husky as though your throat was full of dust.⁠—Will you eat some of this boulli-vert?” “No, not no bouleward for me thank ye.” “Well, then, we will have the ‘entrée de boeuf⁠—beef with sauce tomate⁠—and there is a côtelette de veau en papillotte;⁠—which will you take?” “I’ll trouble the beef, I think; I don’t like that ’ere pantaloon cutlet much, the skin is so tough.” “Oh, but you don’t eat the paper, man; that is only put on to keep this nice layer of fat ham from melting; take some, if it is only that you may enjoy a glass of champagne after it. There is no meat like veal for paving the way for a glass of champagne.” “Well, I don’t care if I do, now you have explained how to eat it, for I’ve really been troubled with indigestion all day from eating one wholesale yesterday; but don’t you stand potatoes⁠—pommes de terre, as we say in France?” “Oh yes, fried, and à la maître d’hotel; here they come, smoking hot. Now, J⁠⸺ for a glass of champagne⁠—take it out of the pail⁠—nay, man! not with both hands round the middle, unless you like it warm⁠—by the neck, so,” showing him how to do it and pouring him a glass of still champagne. “This won’t do,” said Jorrocks, holding it up to the candle; “garsoon! garsoon!⁠—no good⁠—no bon⁠—no fizzay, no fizzay,” giving the bottom of the bottle a slap with his hand to rouse it. “Oh, but this is still champagne,” explained the Yorkshireman, “and far the best.” “I don’t think so,” retorted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, emptying the glass into his water-stand. “Well, then, have a bottle of the other,” rejoined the Yorkshireman, ordering one. “And who’s to pay for it?” inquired <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks. “Oh, never mind that⁠—care killed the cat⁠—give a loose to pleasure for once, for it’s a poor heart that never rejoices. Here it comes, and ‘may you never know what it is to want,’ as the beggar boys say.⁠—Now, let’s see you treat it like a philosopher⁠—the wire is off, so you’ve nothing to do but cut the string, and press the cork on one side with your thumb.⁠—Nay! you’ve cut both sides!” Fizz, pop, bang, and away went the cork close past the ear of an old deaf general, and bounded against the wall.⁠—“Come, there’s no mischief done, so pour out the wine.⁠—Your good health, old boy, may you live for a thousand years, and I be there to count them!⁠—Now, that’s what I call good,” observed the Yorkshireman, holding up his glass, “see how it dulls the glass, even to the rim⁠—champagne isn’t worth a copper unless it’s iced⁠—is it, Colonel?” “Vy, I don’t know⁠—carn’t say I like it so werry cold; it makes my teeth chatter, and cools my courage as it gets below⁠—champagne certainly gives one werry gentlemanly ideas, but for a continuance, I don’t know but I should prefer mild hale.” “You’re right, old boy, it does give one very gentlemanly ideas, so take another glass, and you’ll fancy yourself an emperor.⁠—Your good health again.” “The same to you, sir. And now wot do you call this chap?” “That is a quail, the other a snipe⁠—which will you take?” “Vy, a bit of both, I think; and do you eat these chaps with them?” “Yes, nothing nicer⁠—artichokes á la sauce blanche; you get the real eating part, you see, by having them sent up this way, instead of like haystacks, as they come in England, diving and burning your fingers amid an infinity of leaves.” “They are werry pretty eating, I must confess; and this upper Binjamin of ham the birds are cooked in is delicious. I’ll trouble you for another plateful.” “That’s right, Colonel, you are yourself again. I always thought you would come back into the right course; and now you are good for a glass of claret of light Hermitage. Come, buck up, and give a loose to pleasure for once.” “For once, ay, that’s what you always say; but your once comes so werry often.” “Say no more.⁠—Garçon! un demi-bouteille de <abbr>St.</abbr> Julien; and here, J⁠⸺, is a dish upon which I will stake my credit as an experienced caterer⁠—a Charlotte de pommes⁠—upon my reputation it is a fine one, the crust is browned to a turn, and the rich apricot sweet-meat lies ensconced in the middle, like a sleeping babe in its cradle. If ever man deserved a peerage and a pension it is this cook.” “It’s werry delicious⁠—order another.” “Oh, your eyes are bigger than your stomach, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> J⁠⸺. According to all mathematical calculations, this will more than suffice. Ay, I thought so⁠—you are regularly at a stand-still. Take a glass of whatever you like. Good⁠—I’ll drink Chablis to your champagne. And now, that there may be no mistake as to our country, we will have some cheese⁠—fromage de Roquefort, Gruyère, Neufchatel, or whatever you like⁠—and a beaker of Burgundy after, and then remove the cloth, for I hate dabbling in dowlas after dinner is done.” “Rum beggars these French,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks to himself, laying down the newspaper, and taking a sip of Churchman’s chocolate, as on the Sunday morning he sat with the Countess Benvolio, discussing rolls and butter, with <i>Galignani’s Messenger</i>, for breakfast.</p>
			<p>“Rum beggars, indeed,” said he, resuming the paper, and reading the programme of the amusements for the day, commencing with the hour of Protestant service at the Ambassador’s Chapel, followed on by Palace and Gallery of Pictures of the Palais Royal⁠—Review with Military Music in the Place du Carousel⁠—Horse-races in the Champs de Mars⁠—Fête in the Park of <abbr>St.</abbr> Cloud⁠—Combat d’Animaux, that is to say, dog-fighting and bull-baiting, at the Barrière du Combat, Tivoli, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, “It’s not werry right, but I suppose at Rome we must do as Romans do,” with which comfortable reflection <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks proposed that the Countess and he should go to the races. Madame was not partial to animals of any description, but having got a new hat and feathers she consented to show them, on condition that they adjoined to the fête at <abbr>St.</abbr> Cloud in the evening.</p>
			<p>Accordingly, about noon, the ostler’s man of a neighbouring English livery-stable drew up a dark-coloured job cab, with a red-and-white striped calico lining, drawn by a venerable long-backed white horse, at the Countess’s gateway in the Rue des Mauvais-Garçons, into which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks having handed her ladyship, and Agamemnon, who was attired in his chasseur uniform, having climbed up behind, the old horse, after two or three flourishes of his dirty white tail, as a sort of acknowledgment of the whip on his sides, got himself into motion, and proceeded on his way to the races. The Countess being resolved to cut a dash, had persuaded our hero to add a smart second-hand cocked-hat, with a flowing red-and-white feather, to the rest of his military attire; and the end of a scarlet handkerchief, peeping out at the breast of his embroidered frock-coat, gave him the appearance of wearing a decoration, and procured him the usual salute from the soldiers and veterans of the Hospital of Invalids, who were lounging about the ramparts and walks of the edifice. The Countess’s costume was simple and elegant; a sky-blue satin pelisse with boots to match, and a white satin bonnet with white feathers, tipped with blue, and delicate primrose-coloured gloves. Of course the head of the cab was well thrown back to exhibit the elegant inmates to the world.</p>
			<p>Great respect is paid to the military in France, as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks found by all the hack, cab, and <i>fiacre</i> drivers pulling up and making way for him to pass, as the old crocodile-backed white horse slowly dragged its long length to the gateway of the Champ de Mars. Here the guard, both horse and foot, saluted him, which he politely acknowledged, under direction of the Countess, by raising his <i>chapeau bras</i>, and a subaltern was dispatched by the officer in command to conduct him to the place appointed for the carriages to stand. But for this piece of attention <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks would certainly have drawn up at the splendid building of the École Militaire, standing as it does like a grand stand in the centre of the gravelly dusty plain of the Champ de Mars. The officer, having speared his way through the crowd with the usual courtesy of a Frenchman, at length drew up the cab in a long line of anonymous vehicles under the rows of stunted elms by the stone-lined ditch, on the southern side of the plain when, turning his charger round, he saluted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, and bumped off at a trot. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks then stuck the pig-driving whip into the socket, and throwing forward the apron, handed out the Countess, and installed Agamemnon in the cab.</p>
			<p>A fine day and a crowd make the French people thoroughly happy, and on this afternoon the sun shone brightly and warmly on the land;⁠—still there was no apparently settled purpose for the assembling of the multitude, who formed themselves in groups upon the plain, or lined the grass-burnt mounds at the sides, in most independent parties. The Champ de Mars forms a regular parallelogram of 2700 feet by 1320, and the course, which is of an oblong form, comprises a circuit of the whole, and is marked out with strong posts and ropes. Within the course, equestrians⁠—or more properly speaking, “men on horseback”⁠—are admitted under the surveillance of a regiment of cavalry, while infantry and cavalry are placed in all directions with drawn swords and fixed bayonets to preserve order. Being a gravelly sandy soil, in almost daily requisition for the exercise and training of troops, no symptoms of vegetation can be expected, and the course is as hard as the ride in Rotten Row or up to Kensington Gardens.</p>
			<p>About the centre of the south side, near where the carriages were drawn up, a few temporary stands were erected for the royal family and visitors, the stand for the former being in the centre, and hung with scarlet and gold cloth, while the others were tastefully arranged with tri-coloured drapery. These are entered by tickets only, but there are always plenty of platforms formed by tables and “chaises à louer” (chairs to let) for those who don’t mind risking their necks for a sight. Some few itinerants tramped about the plain, offering alternately tooth-picks, play-bills, and race-lists for sale. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, of course, purchased one of the latter, which was decorated at the top with a woodcut, representing three jockeys riding two horses, one with a whip as big as a broad sword. We append the list as a specimen of “Sporting in France,” which, we are sorry to see, does not run into our pages quite so cleverly as our printer could wish.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-24" id="noteref-24" epub:type="noteref">24</a></p>
			<p>Foreigners accuse the English of claiming every good-looking horse, and every well-built carriage, met on the Continent, as their own, but we think that few would be ambitious of laying claim to the honour of supplying France with jockeys or racehorses. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jorrocks, indeed, indifferent as he is to the affairs of the turf, could not suppress his “conwiction” of the difference between the flibberty-gibberty appearance of the Frenchmen, and the quiet, easy, close-sitting jockeys of Newmarket. The former all legs and elbows, spurting and pushing to the front at starting, in tawdry, faded jackets, and nankeen shorts, just like the frowsy door-keepers of an Epsom gambling-booth; the latter in clean, neat-fitting leathers, well-cleaned boots, spick and span new jackets, feeling their horses’ mouths, quietly in the rear, with their whip hands resting on their thighs. Then such riding! A hulking Norman with his knees up to his chin, and a long lean half-starved looking Frenchman sat astride like a pair of tongs, with a wet sponge applied to his knees before starting, followed by a runaway English stable lad, in white cords and drab gaiters, and half a dozen others equally singular, spurring and tearing round and round, throwing the gravel and sand into each other’s faces, until the field was so separated as to render it difficult to say which was leading and which was tailing, for it is one of the rules of their races, that each heat must be run in a certain time, consequently, though all the horses may be distanced, the winner keeps working away. Then what an absence of interest and enthusiasm on the part of the spectators! Three-fourths of them did not know where the horses started, scarcely a man knew their names, and the few tenpenny bets that were made, were sported upon the colour of the jackets. A Frenchman has no notion of racing, and it is on record that after a heat in which the winning horse, after making a waiting race, ran in at the finish, a Parisian observed, that “although ‘Annette’ had won at the finish, he thought the greater honour was due to ‘Hercule,’ he having kept the lead the greater part of the distance.” On someone explaining to him that the jockey on Annette had purposely made a waiting race, he was totally incredulous, asserting that he was sure the jockeys had too much <i>amour-propre</i> to remain in the rear at any part of the race, when they might be in front.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
