<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The date of this description, it must be remembered, is put many years back. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Anderson, of South Audley Street, is, or was, a famous breeches-maker. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Shaving was in great vogue at Melton some seasons back. It was succeeded by clipping, and clipping by singeing. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A stranger never rides straight if he beats the members of the hunt. <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Subscribers, speaking to strangers, always talk of the hounds as their own. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The promoter of the Hippodrome, near Bayswater⁠—a speculation that soon came to grief. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The late <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wilkinson, commonly called “Matty Wilkinson,” master of the Hurworth foxhounds, was a rigid adherent of the<!-- TODO: partially obscured word --> “d⁠⸺⁠n-all-dandy” school of sportsmen. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“Vot a shocking bad hat!”⁠—a slang cockney phrase of 1831. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>City⁠—for having a pole run into one’s rear. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Where the carrion is, there will be the crow, and on the demise of the “Surrey staggers,” Charley brushed off to the west, to valet the gentlemen’s hunters that attend the Royal Stag Hunt.⁠—<i xml:lang="la">Vide</i> Sir F. Grant’s picture of the meet of the Royal Staghounds. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>A favourite joke among grooms when a horse is turned round in his stall. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>There is a superstition among sportsmen that they are sure to get a fall the first day they appear in anything new. <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>He might well be called a “travelling fox,” for it was said he had just travelled down from Herring’s, in the New Road, by the Bromley stage. <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Doing a bit of resurrection work. <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Magistrates always buy their hats about session times, as they have the privilege of keeping their hats on their blocks in court. <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Poor Jonathan, one of the hardest riders and drinkers of his day, exists, like his pack, but in the recollection of mankind. He was long huntsman to the late Lord Derby, who, when he gave up his staghounds, made Jonathan a present of them, and for two or three seasons he scratched on in an indifferent sort of way, until the hounds were sold to go abroad⁠—to Hungary, we believe. <a href="chapter-4.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Newmarket or London⁠—it’s all the same⁠—“The world” is but composed of one’s own acquaintance. <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>No judge ever gave a race as won by half a head; but we let the whole passage stand as originally written.⁠—Editor. <!-- TODO: cite and css if its not yet there? otherwise <b>the editor --> <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This is more of a hunting-field joke than a road one. “Have I all my shoes on?” “They are not all on before.” <a href="chapter-8.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>For the benefit of our “tarry-at-home” readers, we should premise that Madame de Genlis’s work is arranged for the convenience of travellers who do not speak any language but their own; and it consists of dialogues on different necessary subjects, with French and Italian translations opposite the English. <a href="chapter-8.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Macaroni soup. <a href="chapter-8.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>When the giraffe mania prevailed in Paris, and gloves, handkerchiefs, gowns, reticules, <abbr>etc.</abbr> were <!-- TODO: quotes to italics, add lang -->“à la Giraffe,” an Englishman asked a waiter if they had any beef-steaks “à la Giraffe.” “No, monsieur, but we have them à la G⁠—d-dem,” was the answer. <a href="chapter-8.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><i xml:lang="fr">Co-cous</i> are nondescript vehicles that ply in the environs of Paris. They are a sort of cross between a cab and a young Diligence. <a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-23" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Racing in France is, of course, now a very different business to the primitive sport it was when this sketch was written.⁠—Editor. <!-- TODO: <cite>and hope for the best? Alternatively – add something to make Editor small caps --><a href="chapter-9.xhtml#noteref-24" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-25" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“In your passage from one room to another, offer the lady the wall in going downstairs,” etc⁠—<!-- TODO: book name + cite? --><i>Spirit of Etiquette.</i> <a href="chapter-12.xhtml#noteref-25" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-26" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“We have repeatedly decided that Newmarket is <em>one</em> toss.”⁠—<!-- TODO: book name + cite? --><i>Bell’s Life.</i> <a href="chapter-12.xhtml#noteref-26" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-27" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>“Blanquette de veau.” <a href="chapter-12.xhtml#noteref-27" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
